[KOGUMA] It's been almost
half a year now since life
with my Cub first began.
After the school trip,
I went back to my normal
day-to-day routine.
And that one, small adventure―
the day I spent riding
through the mountains
to meet the bus in Kamakura―
has started to feel more
like a dream than a memory.
[KOGUMA]
Hmm.
How's the Hunter Cub?
Do you like it?
[sighs]
I just barely hit a thousand.
It's not broken in yet.
Ah.
But anyway... Jeez, it's cold.
[KOGUMA] People should
pay a fine for pointing out
that it's cold.
[REIKO] Well, what are
we supposed to do?
It's freezing!
Next time you say it,
I pull your license.
I have no money, Officer.
I just bought a bike.
[REIKO]
Hmm?
Fine. I'll take this
and call it settled.
[REIKO]
Where'd that come from?
[KOGUMA]
The season is changing.
The wind is growing chillier.
But within the halls
of our school,
the atmosphere is buzzing
with this strange energy.
Ah. Hey, good morning.
[SHII]
Good morning!
What's in there?
[SHII] Some scraps
from the Home Ec room.
They told me to take
anything we could use.
[KOGUMA]
That simmering excitement,
and the wind
growing ever colder...
[KOGUMA]
Autumn has arrived.
This might be nice.
Where can we use it?
Uh... Huh?
Good morning, Reiko!
Morning.
[SHII]
Did you stop by?
I did.
You took off early, though!
[SHII]
Well...
There's a lot
to do for the festival!
[KOGUMA]
"Stop by?"
Yeah, her family
runs a bake shop.
[KOGUMA]
Ah.
The festival, huh?
[REIKO] Our class is
doing a little restaurant.
What kind?
An Italian café.
[KOGUMA]
So they'll have coffee?
Espresso.
Daiichi has already
had their festival.
Apparently, they offered
to lend us everything
we need for next to nothing.
The espresso machine and the
flatware and all that stuff.
[KOGUMA]
Hmm.
Would this be good?
- I think it's perfect!
- [RIEKO sighs]
I hate to admit it, but I think
these gloves are done.
[KOGUMA] If you need to replace
them, you should do it soon.
It's going to get a lot colder.
Some streets around
here will freeze over
and become impassable.
We should figure something out
before that happens.
[school bell chimes]
[GIRL 7A sighs]
All done!
[GIRL 7B]
Got any plans?
[GIRL 2A]
Excuse me. Everyone?
We're with the culture
festival executive committee!
Thank you. We're running
an espresso bar
and we're putting up
the room decorations today.
We could use as many
extra hands as we can get.
If anyone's free right now,
we'd really appreciate
if you would stay and help!
[BOY 7A]
Hm, what do you think?
[BOY 7B]
I think it sounds like fun.
- [GIRL 7C] Ooh, yeah!
- [BOY 7C] Yeah, I'm down!
[REIKO]
Wanna stay?
Thanks so much! We should have
all the materials ready to go.
[REIKO]
Hmm?
We need to take care of this.
Oh, yeah.
"café"
mean "coffee"?
[SHII] For mainly
espresso drinks, but yes.
I bet it'll be great!
Where are we going?
[REIKO]
The secondhand shops in Kofu.
While we're there, I should look
into how to winterize my Cub.
[REIKO gasps]
Come check this out.
Ah! Hey, it'll just be a second!
[KOGUMA]
That's not why we're here.
[REIKO]
Hmm...
- Here you go.
- Thank you.
It's a fact. Non-slip work
gloves are a winner every time.
Are they seriously that good?
[REIKO]
Mm-hmm. Seriously!
Even among what we refer
to as developed nations,
lots of transport pilots
and even fighter pilots
are still flying in
plain old work gloves.
I mean, if you can trust them
to keep you in control
through high-G maneuvers,
they're clearly the best―
Right.
[REIKO] Hey, stop trying to
tune me out! I'm for real!
[KOGUMA]
I wasn't.
Quit teasing me.
Come on, Koguma...
[REIKO]
You ready to go?
[SHII]
Aw...
[BOY 2A]
Oh, crap. Really?
The teacher can't
give us a ride?
She said she had something
else on her schedule.
Weren't you supposed
to ask her ahead of time
if she could do it for us?
Huh? I thought
that was your job.
Nobody told me!
Right now, we need
to worry about getting
that stuff over here. Or we
can't get ready for tomorrow!
Sounds like they hit a snag.
That's not cool.
Well, let's get going.
Right.
Could somebody's parents
drive out to Daiichi?
The train?
Or, wait, some motorbikes!
Do you have any idea how much
espresso machines cost?
Think, dude! You wanna
load a bunch of fragile
and expensive stuff
on a bike?
[BOY 2A] Well, we've gotta
come up with something, right?
[GIRL 2G] Yeah, that's the idea,
so could we move on?
A-Ah... Hey, no need to argue!
Stay calm, okay?
Reiko. You have that rig?
[sighs] It still needs
a damper replaced.
[KOGUMA]
Hmm.
[GROUP]
Hmm?
[KOGUMA]
Maybe we can help you out.
Um. Thank you,
but why "maybe"?
Does this list have everything
you were going to pick up?
[SHII]
Ah. Yes.
I'll have to make a trip
to the staff room.
I need to borrow something.
Try the gym, they've actually
got a really nice one.
[SHII]
Mm...
[KOGUMA] A job like this
is nothing for our Cubs.
[KOGUMA panting]
That didn't take long.
And you managed
to get a trailer.
The tire pressure is fine,
and the axle bearings
check out, too.
The handle mount seems
to be in good shape.
Everything looks okay here.
I never expected to
actually use that thing.
Hey, you can't say that about
a bona fide masterpiece
of engineering!
It stays so steady
that even an amateur rider
could make noodle deliveries
using this rig without
breaking any bowls
or spilling one drop of broth!
Good thing we have it.
Well, shall we go?
[REIKO]
Hmm...
So, hey. What if, instead of
having the world's most awesome
Hunter Cub haul
the big dorky trailer,
we hitched it up
to yours instead?
[KOGUMA] My little 52 CC engine
would struggle with it.
We need something with
more torque, like your 110.
I know...
[chuckles]
Okay.
Not bad at all.
[KOGUMA]
Reiko?
[REIKO]
Hmm.
I'd say everything
is ready to go.
[BOTH]
Mm!
[SHII]
E-Excuse me...
Ah...
Is that stuff here?
In the box.
[SHII]
Ah...
Huh?
These are percolators.
You should learn to use
them before you go home.
We wanted to give you
a backup option―
an early American-style
Old West saloon.
There's a Winchester rifle
and cowboy clothes
in the Drama Club room.
A Republic of Texas flag,
and a pair of those cool
swinging saloon
doors, of course.
They also have pork and
beans and premade apple pie
at Super Ono.
Call it a cowboy café.
No matter what it is
you plan to do,
it's always important to have
a backup plan ready.
[SHII]
Ah...
Mm.
Okay. We'll be back.
[REIKO]
Bye!
[REIKO chuckles]
[KOGUMA]
Hmm.
Wait right here.
[REIKO]
Gotcha.
Okay, thank you for coming.
[knocking]
[KOGUMA]
Excuse me.
Hey!
Long time no see!
Looks like you're doing well.
I'm here to pick up stuff
for the culture festival.
What? We were told to expect
your teacher to show up
in her car.
[grunts]
Ah. I think I get it.
We have everything ready to go.
I'll bring it out--one sec.
'Kay.
That's the last of it.
Ya know, I gotta say,
it seems like these Cubs
can come in pretty handy.
Maybe I should ask my Grandpa
if he'll give me his old one.
It's better to buy
a new one if you can.
[REIKO] Turns out they're
not actually indestructible.
And I have proof.
Old Cubs can be tons of trouble.
[TEACHER 4A] Hmm. Yeah, but
trouble in a fun way, right?
[REIKO giggles]
[KOGUMA]
Hmm?
[REIKO]
Thanks a lot.
Thank you very much
for your help.
Careful out there!
[STUDENTS screaming]
[ACTOR 7A]
'Tis Umahachi whom you face!
In grieving for
Omasa, Sukesada―
[SHII]
Ah. Welcome!
Table for two, please!
[STUDENTS]
Welcome!
[BOY 2A]
Welcome. Right this way, please.
[SHII]
Hmm.
[BOY 7D]
Thanks for your patience.
[GIRL 2G] One espresso and
a lettuce-and-ham panini.
Order up!
[BOY 2B]
Coming!
Thank you. Excellent work.
[BOY 2B]
Of course!
[giggles]
The teacher said they would
reimburse us for whatever gas
we used on the way.
Oh, cool. How generous of them.
'Cause gas is all you
need to keep a vehicle
on the road, obviously.
It might be 100 yen, round trip.
Maybe I can get
a coffee out of it.
I'll try telling her
my change rolled under
the vending machine.
Where to next?
Uh... I wanna stretch my legs.
[SHII]
W-Wait!
- One moment, please!
- [KOGUMA] Hmm?
Forgive me. I haven't had
a chance to say thanks.
So please, take these
as tokens of gratitude.
A coffee.
[BOTH laugh]
[SHII]
Hmm?
[slurps]
Ah...
The whole class is very
grateful to you, honestly.
But everyone's
busy with the café.
This is payment enough.
Also, your motorbikes
are amazing!
I have thought that quite often.
Our bikes are amazing
'cause they're Cubs!
[SHII]
Uh...
I'd like to try one, myself.
Although, that would
be a bad idea.
I can barely stay on my bicycle.
It would be better not to try it
if you don't feel confident.
[SHII]
Huh?
If you're nervous when
you get on a Cub,
it'll feel that and
get nervous, too,
and probably fling
you off its seat.
They can tell.
They're made so that you
have to want to ride them.
'Cause otherwise,
they won't let you.
[SHII]
Mm...
We'll bring these mugs
to the classroom later.
You can head back to
the counter, Shii―
I'm sure they need your help.
[SHII]
Uh, right.
And really, thank you
both so much.
Ah!
[KOGUMA slurps]
That was sweet.
[REIKO slurps]
[KOGUMA] I'll take these.
Look into some winter gloves.
Real ones.
Roger that!
- [BOY 2A] Two cappuccinos here!
- I'll take one.
- Got it!
- Order up! One tall macchiato!
[KOGUMA] Suddenly, I was in the
middle of the culture festival.
This prim and delicate
girl has always been
hard at work in the background.
But now, for some reason,
Shii stands out to me.
If I had to describe
her as a color,
I would have called her
a washed-out shade of blue.
But now, I've seen her
from a bit closer.
And I think I was wrong.
Her color is light,
but warm and vibrant.
[SHII giggles]
[KOGUMA]
Like a summer sky.
[KOGUMA] Episode 8:
"Shii's Place."